# FB17654537 — iSH

| Field | Value |
| --- | --- |
| Developer | iSH |
| Request ID | FB17654537 |
| Official page | [https://developer.apple.com/eu-interoperability-request/fb17654537/](https://developer.apple.com/eu-interoperability-request/fb17654537/) |
| Date Received | May 19, 2025 |
| Current Status | Closed |

## Descriptive Title

Sandboxed just-in-time (JIT) compilation API

## Request Type

Interoperability Request

## Feature Name

BrowserEngineCore-like JIT for system emulation

## Reason for Request

We would like to use the BrowserEngineCore API for our app, but it is documented as only
being available for browsers as per the request process: https://developer.apple.com/contact/
request/web-browser-engine/. Our app is not a browser, but has very similar technical needs.
We would like Apple’s help on either being granted an entitlement to use this API for our app,
or working with us on exposing a similar capability for our use case.

## Product Description

We plan to use this for the iSH app. It is currently available on the App Store: https://
apps.apple.com/us/app/ish-shell/id1436902243. This is an open source project that we
develop at https://github.com/ish-app/ish.

## How the Product Will Use the Feature

iSH is a scripting app that is built on instruction emulation. It translates binaries targeting Linux
and the x86 architecture so that they can run on iOS devices that run iOS on Apple silicon. The
app itself consists of many parts, but central to this translation is a homegrown interpreter that
we ship with the app.
While we invest significant effort into our interpreter, it has trouble meeting our performance
goals. We use advanced techniques such as threaded code and hand-written assembly
gadgets to make it faster. However, there are fundamental limitations to this approach. Almost
all high-performance interpreters use native code generation at runtime (often called “JIT
compilation”). This is even true of Apple’s own dynamic binary translator, Rosetta 2.
Browser engines, including Safari, perform similar translation. They also use JIT compilation as
well to speed up web content such as JavaScript and WebAssembly. This is why
BrowserEngineCore has been made available for them.
We have been privately evaluating a new interpreter for iSH that has a JIT compilation tier. Our
experiments show that it has the potential to improve our performance by, on average, 2x-5x.
This would be a major enhancement in something our users really care about–it’s our number
one requested feature by far. This performance improvement is paired with a corresponding
reduction in power usage for our app. This is a win for battery life on devices which are already
power-constrained.
To put it simply, iSH plans to use JIT compilation as a new tier for code translation to augment
its interpreter. Our needs are very basic; they are even less than what BrowserEngineKit offers
today. We simply need a region that we can write native code into and make executable. We
need basic IPC and synchronization primitives. For security, resilience, and performance we
would prefer to move this out-of-process, but this is not a requirement (the current interpreter
is constrained to run in-process). We believe this is an appropriate and natural way to take
advantage of existing platform capabilities for our software. The only thing preventing us from
doing so are policy decisions by Apple, rather than technical limitations.

## Where the Product Is/Will Be Offered

Worldwide
European Union
United States

## Other Frameworks Evaluated

Yes. The current design that we ship consists of compromises that we have designed and
developed over the course of several years. We continue to make our interpreter faster without
any special APIs but there are limits to how far we can take this. In addition, other options we
considered include:
• Shipping native code (that is, ahead-of-time compiled code) with the app. This was discarded
as impractical. The default set of packages we provide with iSH totals around 15 gigabytes,
and it is infeasible to bundle this in our app. iSH has used ODRs in the past but they do not
support native code assets. In addition, our users can generate new code (e.g. by installing gcc
and creating a new Linux binary) and running this would fall back to the interpreter regardless.
This approach is used for some apps on iOS already, but all of them have limitations that iSH
was designed to avoid.
• Using Safari’s code generation: Until recently, Safari and WKWebView were the only surfaces
able to perform runtime code generation on iOS. Unfortunately, neither offers direct access to
these facilities, only exposing in indirect ways such as by executing JavaScript, WebAssembly,
or a handful of other specialized constructs such as regexes. We created a concept that paired
iSH with a WKWebView for a JIT compilation tier, such that very hot code would get lifted into
something we could send to the web process. In our case, we chose to generate a
WebAssembly module because it mapped closely to the type of translation we wanted
JavaScriptCore to do for us when lowering the code to native. However, we ran into significant
issues. For one, WebKit is not designed for dynamic loading and unloading of WebAssembly
modules. In fact we consulted with LeaningTech (https://leaningtech.com/), authors of CheerpX
and experts at using WebAssembly for emulation purposes–they agreed with us that trying to
use it for iSH was not a good choice. Also, we also ran into issues with IPC overhead between
the main app process and the web view. Because we had so little control over what would end
up in the web process, we took many roundtrips and needed to use the JavaScript bridge to
communicate, which was not designed for the performance goals we had.
• Creating an iSH “web app”: There are really two ways we could go about this. One is to fully
emulate the entire system in a webpage, which is already an explored space. Projects that e.g.
compile QEMU to WebAssembly already exist on the web. These generally are very poor
experiences on mobile devices. Their performance isn’t great because the browser’s JIT
compiler doesn’t work on the level of the code being interpreted; it mostly just JIT compiles the
interpreter instead. A smarter approach where we have our interpreter translate the interpreted
code into something the web engine understands how to optimize works better, but runs into
the second fundamental issue: the web platform cannot talk to native platform APIs. This
means we cannot use iOS features our users come to expect, such as our Files app
integration. And we cannot use system APIs to e.g. create a raw TCP socket, which is a Linux
interface we need to support.

## Confidential Treatment

Fully available to other developers

## Additional Information

One important consideration when dealing with native code generation is security. Because
iSH does not have any JIT facilities at the moment, it leans heavily on the platform sandbox for
its security model. However, we are moving to change this.
Our “kernel” (Linux syscall handler) and interpreter are currently homegrown and written in a
mix of C and assembly. We intend for our kernel code to be replaced with the Linux codebase
in a future version of iSH, bringing with it some of the most battle-tested, fuzzed, and secured
operating system code in the world. Of course, we intend to run it in userspace, with the full
enforcement of the iOS platform sandbox. This substantially reduces the threat posed by a
vulnerability if one is found.
Our interpreter is in the process of being completely rewritten in a fully memory-safe language;
work on formal modeling of instruction semantics is ongoing. We follow and engage with the
latest developments in secure design. Our team consists of veteran operating system
developers and security engineers. (This is what we do professionally). While we do not expect
iSH to be the target of sophisticated attacks (unlike, say, a web browser!) our team is
experienced in threat modeling against well-resourced adversaries. We would be happy to
work with you on the design of this feature to ensure it meets both of our security standards.
As an example, we believe the sandbox applied to the content extension process is far too
broad for our needs, and would love to be able to use an even more restrictive profile.

## Communications with Developer

May 23, 2025, from Apple to Developer:
Thank you for your interoperability request.
It is currently in Phase I - Eligibility review. We will reach out via this forum if we need
clarification of your request.
If we do not reach out for clarification, we will endeavor to provide you with the outcome of the
initial assessment of our Phase I - Eligibility review within 20 working days of the date of your
request, which does not include any public holiday as defined by the European Commission.
June 18, 2025, from Apple to Developer:
Thank you for your request.
We have reviewed your submission and determined that your request falls outside the scope of
Article 6(7) DMA because it is not seeking interoperability with a software feature accessed or
controlled by iOS or iPadOS and used by an equivalent Apple service. Apple does not itself
offer emulation functionalities on iOS or iPadOS and it does not offer JIT compilation for non-
browser apps on iOS or iPadOS.
JIT compilation is system functionality available to all apps using WebKit, and to browser
engines built using BrowserEngineKit. JIT compilation is limited to browsers on iOS and
iPadOS because it poses major security risks and Apple has significant concerns that
extending JIT would pose significant integrity risks to the platform. Apple believes there is no
effective way to mitigate such risks.
For these reasons, we are not moving your request to the next phase of our interoperability
process.
This concludes our review under Article 6(7) DMA. If you have additional questions, you may
reach out to us through Apple Developer Forums, Feedback Assistant, or a code-level support
request.
Starting in July 2025, you will have the opportunity to appeal this decision, should you wish,
through a dispute resolution mechanism that Apple will set up as part of the European
Commission’s specification decision on process. You will be notified once the dispute
resolution mechanism is available, after which you will have 15 working days by which to
submit your appeal.
