# FB17723280 — Microsoft

| Field | Value |
| --- | --- |
| Developer | Microsoft |
| Request ID | FB17723280 |
| Official page | [https://developer.apple.com/eu-interoperability-request/fb17723280/](https://developer.apple.com/eu-interoperability-request/fb17723280/) |
| Date Received | May 27, 2025 |
| Current Status | Closed |

## Descriptive Title

Provide a public version of BKSMousePointerService

## Request Type

Interoperability Request

## Feature Name

BKSMousePointerService

## Reason for Request

Chromium has to call the private API BKSMousePointerService to detect hover type on iOS.
But Apple doesn't allow app which uses private API to be submitted to App Store.

## Product Description

Blink-based Chromium iOS, and all the Chromium-based browsers (Chrome, Edge...)

## How the Product Will Use the Feature

Call the new API to detect hover type on iOS.

## Where the Product Is/Will Be Offered

European Union

## Other Frameworks Evaluated

No other way to detect hover type on iOS

## Confidential Treatment

Fully available to other developers

## Additional Information

N/A

## Communications with Developer

June 3, 2025, from Apple to Developer:
Thank you for your interoperability request.
It is currently in Phase I - Eligibility review. We will reach out via this forum if we need
clarification of your request.
If we do not reach out for clarification, we will endeavor to provide you with the outcome of the
initial assessment of our Phase I - Eligibility review within 20 working days of the date of your
request, which does not include any public holiday as defined by the European Commission.
In addition, based on your confidentiality designation, your request will appear in full (including
the name of your developer organization) on the following tracker: https://developer.apple.com/
file/?file=interoperability-request-tracker. If you wish not to include the name of your developer
organization on the tracker, please let us know and we will remove it in future versions of the
tracker.
June 30, 2025, from Apple to Developer:
Thank you for your request.
We have reviewed your submission and determined that effective interoperability exists. The
functionality you are seeking to enable (detecting hover type on iOS) is currently available to
developers through the Game Controller framework. The relevant documentation is available
here: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/nsnotification/name-swift.struct/
gcmousediddisconnect. For this reason, we are not moving your request to the next phase of
our interoperability process.
Because effective interoperability exists, we have made no determination on the application of
Article 6(7) DMA to your request. If you have additional questions, you may reach out to us
through Apple Developer Forums, Feedback Assistant, or a code-level support request.
The Apple Developer Relations Team
