# FB17723378 — Microsoft

| Field | Value |
| --- | --- |
| Developer | Microsoft |
| Request ID | FB17723378 |
| Date Received | May 27, 2025 |
| Current Status | Closed |

## Descriptive Title

Async support of textInteractionGesture:shouldBeginAtPoint: and isPointNearMarkedText:

## Request Type

Interoperability Request

## Feature Name

BrowserEngineKit > BETextInput

## Reason for Request

In Chromium, async IPC will happen between browser process and renderer process to
implement textInteractionGesture:shouldBeginAtPoint: and isPointNearMarkedText.
But textInteractionGesture:shouldBeginAtPoint: and isPointNearMarkedText don't support
async completionHandler.

## Product Description

Blink-based Chromium iOS, and all the Chromium-based browsers (Chrome, Edge...)

## How the Product Will Use the Feature

Implement text interaction in Blink-based Chromium iOS.

## Where the Product Is/Will Be Offered

European Union

## Other Frameworks Evaluated

We had tried to use sync IPC to get info https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/
chromium/src/+/6298226
But this is a hack and Chromium is not going to accept this solution.

## Confidential Treatment

Fully available to other developers

## Additional Information

Discussion in Slack https://chromium.slack.com/archives/C04N7A921N3/p1740063533954269
From Google: You cannot have the browser process synchronously request something from a
renderer process.

## Communications with Developer

June 3, 2025, from Apple to Developer:
Thank you for your interoperability request.
It is currently in Phase I - Eligibility review. We will reach out via this forum if we need
clarification of your request.
If we do not reach out for clarification, we will endeavor to provide you with the outcome of the
initial assessment of our Phase I - Eligibility review within 20 working days of the date of your
request, which does not include any public holiday as defined by the European Commission.
In addition, based on your confidentiality designation, your request will appear in full (including
the name of your developer organization) on the following tracker: https://developer.apple.com/
file/?file=interoperability-request-tracker. If you wish not to include the name of your developer
organization on the tracker, please let us know and we will remove it in future versions of the
tracker.
June 30, 2025, from Apple to Developer:
Thank you for your request.
We have reviewed your submission and determined that effective interoperability exists. The
feature you are requesting interoperability with (BETextInput) is currently available to
developers through BrowserEngineKit. Further, the patch you included in your request appears
to demonstrate your ability to achieve the functionality you seek. Even if effective
interoperability did not exist, your desired functionality (asynchronous support for text
interaction gestures) is not available to or used by Apple’s hardware and/or services. For these
reasons, we are not moving your request to the next phase of our interoperability process.
Because effective interoperability exists, we have made no determination on the application of
Article 6(7) DMA to your request. If you have additional questions, you may reach out to us
through Apple Developer Forums, Feedback Assistant, or a code-level support request.
The Apple Developer Relations Team
