# FB18758981 — Q Misell

| Field | Value |
| --- | --- |
| Developer | Q Misell |
| Request ID | FB18758981 |
| Date Received | July 10, 2025 |
| Current Status | Phase III |
| Confidential | Yes |

## Descriptive Title

FIDO in Wallet - Interopability

## Request Type

Interoperability Request

## Feature Name

FIDO in Wallet

## Reason for Request

It is evident that Apple Wallet supports FIDO tokens in Wallet Passes, see here: https://
woof.tech/@unlobito/112938135668265163
However, this operating system feature is not document, nor available to developers under
terms compatible wih the DMA.
I am therefore requesting Apple make this feature widely available, in compliance with the
DMA.

## Product Description

We work with European Railways on their train ticket issuing system.

## How the Product Will Use the Feature

Use of this will help us protect this tickets against copying.

## Where the Product Is/Will Be Offered

European Union

## Other Frameworks Evaluated

Yes, nothing else seems to offer the same solution.

## Confidential Treatment

Fully available to other developers

## Communications with Developer

July 9, 2025, from Apple to Developer:
Thank you for your interoperability request.
It is currently in Phase I - Eligibility review. We will reach out via this forum if we need
clarification of your request.
If we do not reach out for clarification, we will endeavor to provide you with the outcome of the
initial assessment of our Phase I - Eligibility review within 20 working days of the date of your
request, which does not include any public holiday as defined by the European Commission.
July 15, 2025, from Apple to Developer
Thank you again for your request.
We are working to complete our review of your submission, but additional information is
necessary to complete our assessment. Could you please clarify whether you are seeking
access to FIDO token support within Apple Wallet or if you are requesting that Apple enable
such support in third-party wallet applications?
Once this information is provided, we can continue with the review of your submission. If we do
not receive a response within 3 working days, the period for Apple to conclude the eligibility
assessment of your interoperability request and communicate the outcome to you will be
suspended accordingly.
July 30, 2025, from Apple to Developer
We are following up on our communication from July 15 requesting additional information in
order to evaluate your request.
If we do not hear back from you by August 5, we will close your request as abandoned without
any determination as to its eligibility.
[Request Closed on August 6]

## Generic Description

Apple frameworks, such as the Watch Connectivity framework, are able to use XPC Services
on iOS to facilitate both cross process communication and sandboxing of sensitive
information. We request that the same XPC APIs that are available to these frameworks (and
available to third parties on macOS) be made available on iPadOS and iOS. We also request
that, when XPC events are triggered, iOS/iPadOS allocate execution time to the receiving
application to handle the callback.

## Communications with Developer

[Confidential communications with requestor, withheld from publication]
