# FB18758984 — Meta

| Field | Value |
| --- | --- |
| Developer | Meta |
| Request ID | FB18758984 |
| Date Received | July 10, 2025 |
| Current Status | Closed |

## Descriptive Title

Third Party Framework Distribution

## Request Type

Interoperability Request

## Feature Name

Shared Frameworks

## Reason for Request

Apple is able to distribute shared frameworks (such as the Watch Connectivity framework) with
operating system updates and its system frameworks are dynamically linked.
We request that Apple provide a framework and process that enables iOS apps to dynamically
link to and access third-party frameworks and libraries that are not included in the app's own
bundle - i.e., to enable frameworks used by one or more applications to be shared and made
available to others.
This would reduce the burden on Apple distributing whole binaries as well as on app
developers who want to reduce their binary size. This also helps with maintenance as there is
only one copy of a framework being referenced by multiple apps.
Technical request:
We request that, when an app is installed on iOS/iPadOS, the operating system check if a
third-party framework is declared and automatically download it.
For framework updates, iOS/iPadOS should handle them like app updates, either automatically
in the background or allowing the user to update manually once. Additionally, Apple should
update Xcode to support linking third-party framework stubs so that when the app loads on
iOS, it dynamically links the framework.

## Product Description

Meta apps, services and hardware devices

## How the Product Will Use the Feature

Meta offers access to its apps, services, and devices to various applications. For instance,
Meta distributes an SDK that enables apps to integrate Facebook Login. As more apps adopt
this SDK, Meta's footprint on iOS increases. Meta would like to simplify the process for
developers to include its SDKs, frameworks, and libraries in their apps while minimizing system
impact to facilitate easier integration.
Access to this functionality will also assist with backward compatibility for functionality related
to connected devices (including managing shared system resources, such as Bluetooth and
Wi-Fi, or handling device protocol versioning), where having multiple versions of a framework
can place a substantial burden on connected devices, which are often more constrained in
meeting interoperability requirements.

## Where the Product Is/Will Be Offered

Worldwide

## Other Frameworks Evaluated

We are unaware of any framework or technology that could support an effective solution.

## Confidential Treatment

Fully available to other developers

## Additional Information

Attachments

## Communications with Developer

July 11, 2025, from Apple to Developer:
Thank you for your interoperability request.
It is currently in Phase I - Eligibility review. We will reach out via this forum if we need
clarification of your request.
If we do not reach out for clarification, we will endeavor to provide you with the outcome of the
initial assessment of our Phase I - Eligibility review within 20 working days of the date of your
request, which does not include any public holiday as defined by the European Commission.
August 4, 2025, from Apple to Developer:
Thank you again for your request.
We have reviewed your submission and determined that your request falls outside the scope of
Article 6(7) DMA. Your request asks Apple to create new functionality on iOS or iPadOS rather
than make existing features available to your services or hardware. For this reason, we are not
moving your request to the next phase of our interoperability process.
This concludes our review under Article 6(7) DMA.
Dispute Resolution
You have the opportunity to initiate a dispute resolution mechanism regarding your
interoperability request under Article 6(7) of the Digital Markets Act (DMA).
If you wish to appeal Apple’s decision to reject your interoperability request on technical
grounds, you will have 15 working days (not including any public holiday as defined by the
European Commission) from receiving this communication to initiate the mechanism.
Timing
To initiate the process, please respond to this communication in Feedback Assistant by
indicating you are initiating the dispute resolution mechanism, and include a brief written
statement setting out the grounds for doing so.
The dispute resolution mechanism can consist of two stages.
Internal Review Mechanism
The first stage is an internal review by an Interoperability Request Review Board (IRRB), made
up of senior Apple members. The IRRB will issue a reasoned written decision within 30 working
days of receiving your brief written statement, and communicate that decision to you, Apple,
and the European Commission without delay. The IRRB may decide to overturn Apple’s initial
decision, refer it back for new consideration, or reject your appeal. The 30 working-day
deadline may be extended if the IRRB seeks guidance from the European Commission. This
stage is free of charge to you.
The IRRB’s written decision will be kept confidential, subject to the publication by Apple of an
aggregated summary of the outcome of the decision by the IRRB. Apple will provide you the
opportunity to review the aggregated summary for the purpose of ensuring that it does not
contain any information that you consider confidential.
Conciliation
If you are not satisfied with the IRRB written decision, you may initiate an external non-binding
technical expert review process (“conciliation”) within 15 working days of notification of the
IRRB’s decision. You will be provided with more information regarding conciliation once you are
eligible for it.
