# FB18804893 — riedel

| Field | Value |
| --- | --- |
| Developer | riedel |
| Request ID | FB18804893 |
| Official page | [https://developer.apple.com/eu-interoperability-request/fb18804893/](https://developer.apple.com/eu-interoperability-request/fb18804893/) |
| Date Received | July 12, 2025 |
| Current Status | Fulfilled |

## Descriptive Title

Ensure 3rd Party Web Engines apply same WebContentSettings.FilterPolicy as WebKit

## Request Type

Interoperability Request

## Feature Name

WebContentSettings.FilterPolicy

## Reason for Request

Hello, my name is Frederik Riedel and I’m the developer behind an app called “one sec”.
Background information / context of my app:
With one sec, we help millions of users around the world to save more than 1000+ years (!)
from scrolling social media *every single week*.
We help grown-up adult users to limit their own screen time (NOT adolescents who are
managed by their parents).
One important aspect of one sec is website blocking.
For that, we make use of the WebContentSettings.FilterPolicy in the ManagedSettings
framework (part of Screen Time).
This is important:
1. To block social media websites (e.g. during work hours).
2. To completely block access to porn sites (e.g. as part of our “Adult Content Detox” feature).
This works great, and users have a consistent experience on iOS: no matter if they’re using
Safari, Chrome, Firefox, etc.
We are concerned, that now that under the DMA that 3rd party web engines are allowed, they
will not follow the same consistent system-controlled WebContentSettings.FilterPolicy like
WebKit, and thus blocked URLs become available through 3rd party web engines.
That’s why we ask Apple to ensure that:
1. The system level WebContentSettings.FilterPolicy (curated from iOS settings and from 3rd
party apps) become available to 3rd party web browsers as well.
2. It is enforced (e.g. through review guidelines) that 3rd party web engines actually implement
those FilterPolicies and don’t ignore them.
This should also affect apps that are not primarily web browsers but that also allow to open
URLs in a Web View (such as Instagram). Right now they use WebKit, so restriction rules are
enforced, but in the future they might switch to 3rd party browser engines as well.

## Product Description

Hello, my name is Frederik Riedel and I’m the developer behind an app called “one sec”.
Background information / context of my app:
With one sec, we help millions of users around the world to save more than 1000+ years (!)
from scrolling social media *every single week*.
We help grown-up adult users to limit their own screen time (NOT adolescents who are
managed by their parents).
One important aspect of one sec is website blocking.
For that, we make use of the WebContentSettings.FilterPolicy in the ManagedSettings
framework (part of Screen Time).
This is important:
1. To block social media websites (e.g. during work hours).
2. To completely block access to porn sites (e.g. as part of our “Adult Content Detox” feature).

## How the Product Will Use the Feature

My product will use this feature to block access to certain user-configured websites (social
media, online news, gambling, porn, …) permanently or temporarily via
WebContentSettings.FilterPolicy in ALL web browsers no matter which browser engine is being
used.
This should also affect apps that are not primarily web browsers but that also allow to open
URLs in a Web View (such as Instagram). Right now they use WebKit, so restriction rules are
enforced, but in the future they might switch to 3rd party browser engines as well.

## Where the Product Is/Will Be Offered

Worldwide

## Other Frameworks Evaluated

Right now, we use WebContentSettings.FilterPolicy and it works great.
This Interoperability Request is about the change enforced by the DMA which we find
concerning:
That 3rd party browser engines are now a thing and might ignore system-level restrictions /
don’t put the same care into implementing such APIs like WebKit / WKWebView.
So our current alternative is: Tell everyone to NOT install 3rd party engines, because we cannot
guarantee that our features will work with them.

## Confidential Treatment

Fully available to other developers

## Additional Information

Attachments
IMG_5208.PNG
IMG_5211.PNG
IMG_5209.PNG
IMG_5210.PNG

## Communications with Developer

July 14, 2025, from Apple to Developer:
Thank you for your interoperability request.
It is currently in Phase I - Eligibility review. We will reach out via this forum if we need
clarification of your request.
If we do not reach out for clarification, we will endeavor to provide you with the outcome of the
initial assessment of our Phase I - Eligibility review within 20 working days of the date of your
request, which does not include any public holiday as defined by the European Commission.
August 11, 2025, from Apple to Developer:
Dear Frederik,
Thank you for your request. We are moving your request to the third phase of our
interoperability process - Phase III (Development).
We will introduce new API to the BrowserEngineKit framework to interoperate with Web
Content restrictions. In particular, the API will allow the client to check if Web Content
restrictions are enabled and to add a particular URL to the allow-list so that it is no longer
blocked by Web Content restrictions.
This is a mild engineering effort. We plan to complete development of this solution by March
2026, and ship it shortly thereafter. We will update you once we have shipped it in a beta
release.
We believe this addresses your request. Please let us know within 5 working days if you have
any feedback on the project plan. If we do not hear from you in that time frame, we will
proceed with development work in accordance with the project plan described above.
If you have additional questions, you may reach out to us through Apple Developer Forums
(https://developer.apple.com/forums/), Feedback Assistant (https://developer.apple.com/bug-
reporting/), or a code-level support request (https://developer.apple.com/contact/request/
code-level-support/).
The Apple Developer Relations Team
August 17, 2025, from Developer to Apple:
Dear Apple Developer Relations Team!
Thanks a lot for your feedback on this, this is very much appreciated & I’m quite relieved to
hear that this will be addressed 🫶
– Frederik
Ah, a quick follow-up question:
Is the implementation of the BrowserEngineKit framework on a voluntary basis or are Browser
Engine Manufacturers enforced (e.g. through App Review) to implement it?
I am afraid that they just might ignore this framework if this is not enforced somehow.
August 25, 2025, from Apple to Developer:
Thank you for your feedback. Adoption of BrowserEngineKit and its capabilities by browser
developers is voluntary but necessary for developers seeking to use 3P browser engines in the
EU. To provide effective interoperability, Apple’s solution will allow browsers running 3P
engines the same ability to read Web Content restrictions that WebKit has today. However, it
remains the responsibility of those browser developers to adopt and utilize such capability —
or alternatively, to provide their own filtering or content restriction solution if they so choose.
We agree it is important for browsers to honor content restrictions set by users. Accordingly,
we include those settings in WebKit such that they apply to all WebKit-based browsers. The
European Commission has made clear, however, that we are unable to take this same
approach when developers use 3P browser engines. To the extent you have concerns that
browser developers may not implement these capabilities or honor such controls, we
encourage you to raise these concerns with the Commission directly.
August 26, 2025, from Developer to Apple:
Thanks a lot for your follow-up!
It’s good to hear that I am not alone with my concerns.
I will definitely bring this up with the European Commission:
If this really turns out to mean weaker restriction controls for 3rd Party Browser Engines, I
believe this will result in a medial backlash for both the 3rd party browser manufacturers and
the European Commission / DMA in general.
But let’s see if they are agile enough to address this before the first iOS Web Browsers with 3rd
party engine enter the market.
Do you know roughly when 3rd party browser engines are expected to be released?
From my understanding the rules are already in place that they could be released any time,
correct?
– Frederik
September 12, 2025, from Apple to Developer:
Everything is in place for 3rd party browser engines to launch. When they do is a matter for
them. For questions regarding topics outside the interoperability process, please reach out to
your Developer Relations contact or you may reach out to us through Apple Developer Forums
(https://developer.apple.com/forums/), Feedback Assistant (https://developer.apple.com/bug-
reporting/), or a code-level support request (https://developer.apple.com/contact/request/
code-level-support/).
March 31, 2026, from Developer to Apple:
Good morning!
I just saw that this new API has been release which is exactly what we have been talking about
previously.
https://developer.apple.com/documentation/screentime/stwebpagecontroller
Will be really interesting to see how / if / when browser vendors will adapt this framework (and
3rd party browser engines in general).
Have a great rest week!
– Frederik
April 29, 2026, from Apple to Developer:
Dear Frederik,
With apologies for the delay, we write to notify you that in December, Apple shipped the
solution to your interoperability request. The solution allows web browsers running third-party
browser engines to access web content filtering restrictions set by users.
For more information on the solution we shipped, please refer to the following developer
documentation:
https://developer.apple.com/documentation/browserenginekit/bewebcontentfilter
This concludes our work on your interoperability request, and we will close your request out as
complete.
If you have any questions on the solution we shipped, please reach out to us through Apple
Developer Forums, Feedback Assistant, or a code-level support request.
May 4, 2026, from Developer to Apple:
Dear DMA team! Thanks a lot for providing documentation to this new new API, we are very
relieved that there is now a way for 3rd party browser vendors to remain compliant with screen
time restrictions from 1st party features or 3rd party apps.
– Frederik
