# FB18806160 — riedel

| Field | Value |
| --- | --- |
| Developer | riedel |
| Request ID | FB18806160 |
| Official page | [https://developer.apple.com/eu-interoperability-request/fb18806160/](https://developer.apple.com/eu-interoperability-request/fb18806160/) |
| Date Received | July 12, 2025 |
| Current Status | Fulfilled |

## Descriptive Title

Ensure that ManagedSettingsUI.ShieldConfiguration and
ManagedSettings.ShieldActionDelegate gains same level of functionality as Apple’s built-in
Screen Time functionality

## Request Type

Interoperability Request

## Feature Name

Screen Time

## Reason for Request

Hello, my name is Frederik Riedel and I’m the developer behind an app called “one sec”.
Background information / context of my app:
With one sec, we help millions of users around the world to save more than 1000+ years (!)
from scrolling social media *every single week*.
We help grown-up adult users to limit their own screen time (NOT adolescents who are
managed by their parents).
For this, we make use of ManagedSettingsUI.ShieldConfiguration in order to display block
shield overlays on top of target apps (e.g. when a user has reached a certain limit or during a
block session).
We use ManagedSettings.ShieldActionDelegate in order to react to user actions on block
shields.
We have noticed however, that Apple’s capabilities in their own native Screen Time solution
goes far beyond what is available to 3rd party developers.
1. Apple’s Shields can display animations (this is visible when the shield appears or disappears,
the hourglass is rotating nicely), the 3rd party ManagedSettingsUI.ShieldConfiguration cannot.
2. Apple can display overlays and additional custom UI elements on top of the Screen Time
shield, for example when pressing the “Ignore Limit For Today” button. This option is not
available for 3rd part developers, neither through ManagedSettingsUI.ShieldConfiguration nor
through ManagedSettings.ShieldActionDelegate. It would be great if Apple allowed 3rd party
developers to display UIViewControllers on top of the Screen Time shield as well.

## Product Description

With one sec, we help millions of users around the world to save more than 1000+ years (!)
from scrolling social media *every single week*.
We help grown-up adult users to limit their own screen time (NOT adolescents who are
managed by their parents).

## How the Product Will Use the Feature

We would heavily improve our Screen Time shields (ManagedSettingsUI.ShieldConfiguration
and ManagedSettings.ShieldActionDelegate):
They would be able to offer nicer animations (e.g. when a shield appears or disappears).
We would also be able to offer our interventions (e.g. a full-screen breathing exercise) within
the Screen Time shield without the need to forward the user into our app first. This would be
possible if Apple gave us access to use UIKit, or SwiftUI within the Shield as well, just how they
utilize it for their own Screen Time solution.

## Where the Product Is/Will Be Offered

Worldwide

## Other Frameworks Evaluated

No other Screen Time frameworks are available on iOS.

## Confidential Treatment

Fully available to other developers

## Additional Information

If you have any questions / feedback, please feel free to reach out any time.
Attachments
ScreenRecording_07-13-2025 00-36-08_1.mov
ScreenRecording_07-13-2025 00-31-29_1.MP4
IMG_5214.PNG

## Communications with Developer

July 14, 2025, from Apple to Developer:
Thank you for your interoperability request.
It is currently in Phase I - Eligibility review. We will reach out via this forum if we need
clarification of your request.
If we do not reach out for clarification, we will endeavor to provide you with the outcome of the
initial assessment of our Phase I - Eligibility review within 20 working days of the date of your
request, which does not include any public holiday as defined by the European Commission.
August 11, 2025, from Apple to Developer:
Dear Frederik,
Thank you for your request.
Following an initial assessment of your request, we are moving your request to the next phase
of our interoperability process. In this phase, the relevant teams will assess whether we are
able to provide an effective interoperability solution and, if so, develop a tentative project plan.
It may be that, despite our best efforts, it will ultimately not be feasible or appropriate to
provide an interoperability solution, including if providing effective interoperability would
compromise the integrity of the operating system. We have also not yet conducted an
assessment of the impact this request would have on Apple’s intellectual property rights. We
will inform you should it not be feasible or appropriate to implement your request. We expect to
have an update for you on this phase by October 7.
If you have additional questions, you may reach out to us through Apple Developer Forums,
Feedback Assistant, or a code-level support request.
The Apple Developer Relations Team
October 7, 2025, from Apple to Developer:
Dear Frederik,
Thank you for your request. First, we note that iOS 26 removed animation from the Screen
Time shield. Accordingly, there is no longer a gap in capabilities to address between Screen
Time and third-party apps as far as shield animation.
We are still, however, moving the shield button portion of your request to the Phase III
(Development) phase of our interoperability process. We plan to provide an optional menu with
up to 3 customizable menu buttons launched from the secondary shield button, similar to the
three menu button options that Screen Time offers to users today. This a mild engineering
effort. We plan to complete development of this solution by March 2026, and ship it shortly
thereafter. We will update you once we have shipped it in a beta release.
We believe this addresses your request. Please let us know within 5 working days if you have
any feedback on the proposed plan. If we do not hear from you in that time frame, we will
begin development work in accordance with the plan described above.
The Apple Developer Relations Team
October 8, 2025, from Developer to Apple:
Dear Screen Time Team!
Thanks a lot for the update!
First of all, I’m a bit sad to hear that the animations from the screen time shields have been
removed. The goal of my feedback request was definitely not to take away joy from Apple’s
default Screen Time shields.
It would be great if long-term you could revise this decision and find a solution how all
developers can make use of animations in the shield.
But I agree, for now let’s focus on the shield button options:
It sounds great that this functionality will be made available to 3rd party developers as well 🫶
To be able to provide useful feedback, it would be good to get some more insights about the
implementation details of this new functionality:
1. How will the new menu button options be triggered to be displayed within the shield? I
assume it might be a new return enum in the ShieldActionDelegate, something like
ShieldActionResponse.moreOptions(button1, button2, button3)?
2. How will the titles (= string) and actions (= user selected an option) of the button options be
configured (might be part of the enum, see 1.)?
3. Will .openParentApp be added to the feasible enums of ShieldActionResponse as well?
Thanks a lot for your feedback & have a great day!
– Frederik
October 15, 2025, from Apple to Developer:
Thank you for your questions. The team is continuing to do the detailed scoping necessary for
implementation. In response to your first two questions, the project plan is that the
ShieldConfiguration API will take a new optional string array (limited to max 3 sub menu label
strings) but, as per your third question, the plan does not include the addition
of .openParentApp.
October 16, 2025, from Developer to Apple:
Thanks a lot for the clarification!
Just to avoid any misunderstandings, I assume there will also be a way to respond (=execute
code) reacting to a user interaction (= user selects one of the three new buttons)?
Thanks a lot for your help & have a great day!
– Frederik
November 3, 2025, from Apple to Developer:
Yes, the current plan is to extend the existing ShieldAction enumeration with new cases for
each submenu button. Developers will be able to execute code specific to whichever option
was selected by the user.
April 29, 2026, from Apple to Developer:
Dear Frederik,
In March, Apple shipped the solution to your interoperability request. The solution enhanced
the Screen Time shield customization options with new parameters.
For more information on the solution we shipped, please refer to the following developer
documentation:
https://developer.apple.com/documentation/managedsettingsui/shieldconfiguration/
secondarybuttonsubmenuitems
https://developer.apple.com/documentation/managedsettingsui/shieldconfiguration/
secondarybuttonlabel
This concludes our work on your interoperability request, and we will close your request out as
complete.
If you have any questions on the solution we shipped, please reach out to us through Apple
Developer Forums, Feedback Assistant, or a code-level support request.
