# FB19609583 — Q Misell

| Field | Value |
| --- | --- |
| Developer | Q Misell |
| Request ID | FB19609583 |
| Date Received | August 13, 2025 |
| Current Status | Closed |

## Descriptive Title

PassKit NFC and VAS Protocol

## Request Type

Interoperability Request

## Feature Name

Wallet

## Reason for Request

It is documented that Apple supports, in addition to the standard barcoded Wallet Passes
available to all, Passes which contain NFC data (see: https://developer.apple.com/
documentation/walletpasses/pass/nfc-data.dictionary).
The signing certificates for such passes are not freely available, and attemps to request them
via the documented means have been denied.
Additionnaly, redemption (reading out) the data from the Passes requires the use of the Apple
Value Added Services (VAS) protocol.
This protocol is not publicly documented.
I am therefore requesting, in addition, that Apple provide publicly the documentation required
to implement the Apple VAS protocol in an NFC reader.
Per Article 6 Paragraph 7 of the European Union Digital Markets Act (Regulation 2022/1925)
Apple must provide, free of charge and effective, interoperability with services used or provided
by the its Operating System.
This is an Operating System service, and thus must be provided openly within the EU.

## Product Description

As described in PassKit documentation.

## How the Product Will Use the Feature

As described in PassKit documentation.

## Where the Product Is/Will Be Offered

European Union

## Other Frameworks Evaluated

Yes.
The solution desired is extant, but not appropriately documented not made available by Apple.

## Confidential Treatment

Fully available to other developers

## Additional Information

Attachments

## Communications with Developer

August 15, 2025, from Apple to Developer:
Thank you for your interoperability request.
It is currently in Phase I - Eligibility review. We will reach out via this forum if we need
clarification of your request.
If we do not reach out for clarification, we will endeavor to provide you with the outcome of the
initial assessment of our Phase I - Eligibility review within 20 working days of the date of your
request, which does not include any public holiday as defined by the European Commission.
September 11, 2025, from Apple to Developer:
We have reviewed your submissions and determined that your requests fall outside the scope
of Article 6(7) DMA because the functionalities you seek (FIDO token support and the NFC
element of Apple Wallet) are not features that are accessed or controlled via iOS or iPadOS.
For this reason, we are not moving your request to the next phase of our interoperability
process.
This concludes our DMA Article 6(7) review.
Dispute Resolution
You have the opportunity to initiate a dispute resolution mechanism regarding your
interoperability request under Article 6(7) of the Digital Markets Act (DMA).
If you wish to appeal Apple’s decision to reject your interoperability request on technical
grounds, you will have 15 working days (not including any public holiday as defined by the
European Commission) from receiving this communication to initiate the mechanism.
Timing
To initiate the process, please respond to this communication in Feedback Assistant by
indicating you are initiating the dispute resolution mechanism, and include a brief written
statement setting out the grounds for doing so.
The dispute resolution mechanism can consist of two stages.
Internal Review Mechanism
The first stage is an internal review by an Interoperability Request Review Board (IRRB), made
up of senior Apple members. The IRRB will issue a reasoned written decision within 30 working
days of receiving your brief written statement, and communicate that decision to you, Apple,
and the European Commission without delay. The IRRB may decide to overturn Apple’s initial
decision, refer it back for new consideration, or reject your appeal. The 30 working-day
deadline may be extended if the IRRB seeks guidance from the European Commission. This
stage is free of charge to you.
The IRRB’s written decision will be kept confidential, subject to the publication by Apple of an
aggregated summary of the outcome of the decision by the IRRB. Apple will provide you the
opportunity to review the aggregated summary for the purpose of ensuring that it does not
contain any information that you consider confidential.
Conciliation
If you are not satisfied with the IRRB written decision, you may initiate an external non-binding
technical expert review process (“conciliation”) within 15 working days of notification of the
IRRB’s decision. You will be provided with more information regarding conciliation once you are
eligible for it.
