# FB19653623 — Inkeliz

| Field | Value |
| --- | --- |
| Developer | Inkeliz |
| Request ID | FB19653623 |
| Date Received | August 14, 2025 |
| Current Status | Closed |

## Descriptive Title

Non-Apple Push Notification

## Request Type

Interoperability Request

## Feature Name

Push Notification

## Reason for Request

Currently, Apple doesn't allow send push-notification over internet without using APNs. That is
a big issue for decentralize services, which might need to send notification from decentralize
origins.

## Product Description

Chat
IoT

## How the Product Will Use the Feature

The end-user can self-host our server-client and that server-client will send push-notifications,
without a central server nor APN access.
On iOS/iPadOS, the app can connect using an arbitrary protocol to the sever-client, and that
connection is persistent or periodical, based on developer needs, not Apple needs!

## Where the Product Is/Will Be Offered

Worldwide
European Union

## Other Frameworks Evaluated

The only option is send notification over LAN, which is allowed, but it doesn't fix the issue over
internet. It's not a replacement for APN!

## Confidential Treatment

Fully available to other developers

## Additional Information

Attachments

## Communications with Developer

August 15, 2025, from Apple to Developer:
Thank you for your interoperability request.
It is currently in Phase I - Eligibility review. We will reach out via this forum if we need
clarification of your request.
If we do not reach out for clarification, we will endeavor to provide you with the outcome of the
initial assessment of our Phase I - Eligibility review within 20 working days of the date of your
request, which does not include any public holiday as defined by the European Commission.
September 11, 2025, from Apple to Developer
We have reviewed your submission and determined that your request—seeking the ability for
an app to establish a persistent or periodic connection with a server—is not a feature accessed
by Apple services or hardware that lacks interoperability. In your example (i.e., iOS push
notifications), the ability to establish a persistent or periodic connection with an external server
is part of the operating system, rather than an Apple service. The registration of the device with
the push notification server is an operating system feature.
Moreover, Apple already offers a mechanism to initiate push notifications to Apple operating
systems, and that mechanism is available to both Apple and third parties.
For these reasons, we are not moving your request to the next phase of our interoperability
review process.
This concludes our DMA Article 6(7) review.
Dispute Resolution
You have the opportunity to initiate a dispute resolution mechanism regarding your
interoperability request under Article 6(7) of the Digital Markets Act (DMA).
If you wish to appeal Apple’s decision to reject your interoperability request on technical
grounds, you will have 15 working days (not including any public holiday as defined by the
European Commission) from receiving this communication to initiate the mechanism.
Timing
To initiate the process, please respond to this communication in Feedback Assistant by
indicating you are initiating the dispute resolution mechanism, and include a brief written
statement setting out the grounds for doing so.
The dispute resolution mechanism can consist of two stages.
Internal Review Mechanism
The first stage is an internal review by an Interoperability Request Review Board (IRRB), made
up of senior Apple members. The IRRB will issue a reasoned written decision within 30 working
days of receiving your brief written statement, and communicate that decision to you, Apple,
and the European Commission without delay. The IRRB may decide to overturn Apple’s initial
decision, refer it back for new consideration, or reject your appeal. The 30 working-day
deadline may be extended if the IRRB seeks guidance from the European Commission. This
stage is free of charge to you.
The IRRB’s written decision will be kept confidential, subject to the publication by Apple of an
aggregated summary of the outcome of the decision by the IRRB. Apple will provide you the
opportunity to review the aggregated summary for the purpose of ensuring that it does not
contain any information that you consider confidential.
Conciliation
If you are not satisfied with the IRRB written decision, you may initiate an external non-binding
technical expert review process (“conciliation”) within 15 working days of notification of the
IRRB’s decision. You will be provided with more information regarding conciliation once you are
eligible for it.
