# FB20882639 — Meta

| Field | Value |
| --- | --- |
| Developer | Meta |
| Request ID | FB20882639 |
| Date Received | October 31, 2025 |
| Current Status | Phase III |

## Descriptive Title

Cloud pairing

## Request Type

Interoperability Request

## Feature Name

Cloud pairing

## Reason for Request

Certain Apple accessories, such as AirPods, once paired with a user’s iOS device, are
automatically paired with and can be used across multiple other Apple devices: “For example,
when you're signed in with the same Apple Account on your devices, your AirPods will switch
automatically from listening to music on your Mac to listening to a podcast on your iPhone. Or
if you get a phone call on your iPhone that you answer on your Watch, the phone call audio
automatically routes to your AirPods.” “To switch between devices automatically, update all
your devices to the latest versions of their operating systems and sign in to your devices with
the same Apple Account using two-factor authentication.” Similarly, once a user pairs their
Apple Watch to their iPhone, the Apple Watch automatically syncs with other Apple devices
with which that user has logged into their Apple Account, allowing the user to use Handoff,
control nearby devices with their Apple Watch, and retrieve their health data in the Health app.
As we understand, such features are enabled by iOS’s coordination of the iPhone’s Bluetooth
stack as well as its ability to read, add and remove pairing keys of, to and from iCloud. We
want to be able to offer a similar pairing/syncing experience to our users in relation to their
Meta devices and iPhones. More specifically, we would like to be able to offer our users the
ability, once they pair their Meta device with their iPhone or iPad, to have that Meta device
automatically available and paired on other iPhones and iPads associated with that user, in a
similar way to how AirPods automatically pair with a user’s Apple devices. In terms of user
experience, we want to provide the functionality which makes the device available for audio
and accessible by apps, without the need for additional system prompts after the first pairing.
(The best experience we can offer today still requires the user to navigate additional prompts
on each new iPhone/iPad.) Due to the limited access we currently have to the iPhone’s
Bluetooth pairing functionality, we are unable to build a similar system using our own cloud
services.
We believe that we can nevertheless offer a similar feature to our users if we are granted
access to the ability to read, add and remove pairing keys in a manner which would enable us
to build a cloud pairing feature for our wearable devices similar to that which iCloud currently
enables for Apple accessories. We note, however, that we are not specific about the way this
functionality should be exposed to us. It could be by allowing us to implement a protocol to
communicate between the devices and switch the audio output, or it could be access to pair
the device without a user prompt on other devices once the user has trusted it on one device.
For the sake of clarity, we are not requesting access to iCloud or Cloud Syncing, but instead to
certain system-level functionalities relating to the iPhone’s/iPad’s Bluetooth stack which allows
for a cloud pairing functionality similar to that enabled by iCloud and Cloud Syncing. Meta’s
goal is to use those relevant iOS/iPadOS functionalities to enable Meta’s own cloud services to
coordinate pairing.

## Product Description

Ray Ban Meta glasses
Meta Quest headsets

## How the Product Will Use the Feature

We would like to be able to pair a Meta device with an iPhone or iPad and have it automatically
available and paired on other iPhones and iPads associated with that user by coordination via
Meta’s own cloud services.

## Where the Product Is/Will Be Offered

Worldwide

## Other Frameworks Evaluated

N/A.

## Confidential Treatment

Fully available to other developers

## Additional Information

N/A.
Attachments

## Communications with Developer

November 3, 2025, from Apple to Developer:
Thank you for your interoperability request.
It is currently in Phase I - Eligibility review. We will reach out via this forum if we need
clarification of your request.
If we do not reach out for clarification, we will endeavor to provide you with the outcome of the
initial assessment of our Phase I - Eligibility review within 20 working days of the date of your
request, which does not include any public holiday as defined by the European Commission.
November 28, 2025, from Apple to Developer:
Thank you for your request.
Following an initial assessment of your request, we are moving your request to the next phase
of our interoperability process. In this phase, the relevant teams will assess whether we are
able to provide an effective interoperability solution and, if so, develop a tentative project plan.
It may be that, despite our best efforts, it will ultimately not be feasible or appropriate to
provide an interoperability solution, including if providing effective interoperability would
compromise the integrity of the operating system. We have also not yet conducted an
assessment of the impact this request would have on Apple’s intellectual property rights. We
will inform you should it not be feasible or appropriate to implement your request.
We expect to have an update for you on this phase by February 4, 2026.
February 4, 2026, from Apple to Developer
Thank you again for your request. We are moving your request to the next phase of our
interoperability process.
Apple plans to introduce an API that will allow third-party applications access to cryptographic
materials that will enable pairing completed on one device to be utilized on other devices on
which the user is signed in with the same Apple Account. Apple is developing a protocol that
will allow an Apple device to derive a secure session key that is used to authenticate and
encrypt the transmission link between the Apple device and a third-party’s accessory. Third
party applications can sync the cryptographic materials to another Apple device on which their
application can provide those materials to the operating system to enable a pairing established
on another device to be used.
The solution will require a user to consent to the sharing of data following a one-time per-
accessory consent.
This is a significant engineering effort as it relies upon the infrastructure we are building in
AccessorySetupKit and Proximity Pairing that are subject to the European Commission’s
specification proceeding in case DMA.100203. (On March 19, 2025, the European Commission
issued a decision in those proceedings. You can find the measures specified by the European
Commission here, https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_25_816.) We plan
to complete development of this solution by spring 2027, and ship it shortly thereafter. We will
update you once we have shipped it in a beta release.
We believe this addresses your request. Please let us know within 5 working days by
responding to this email if you have any feedback on the proposed plan. If we do not hear from
you in that time frame, we will begin development work in accordance with the plan described
above.
After providing feedback and Apple’s response to the feedback, if you still consider that the
Project Plan would not provide a solution equally effective compared to the feature (including
any of its functionalities) used by Apple, you will have the opportunity to initiate a dispute
resolution mechanism.
February 11, 2026, from Developer to Apple
Dear Apple Developer Relations Team,
Many thanks for sharing the update on our request for interoperability with Cloud Pairing.
Based on your concise description, the interoperability solution being designed appears to
deliver the core functionality we requested - which is very much appreciated.
That said, we do note that you envisage making access to the proposed interoperability
solution conditional on use of AccessorySetupKit (ASK) and associated implementations
supporting Proximity Pairing per the European Commission’s specification proceeding in case
DMA.100203.
In this sense, we do have significant concerns about a requirement effectively rendering this
functionality unavailable to companion apps and devices not relying on ASK. This is because
we currently rely on Core Bluetooth’s scanning APIs for our pairing flows outside the EU, where
Apple has indicated it does not plan to make Proximity Pairing available. As you know,
declaring support to ASK in our apps prevents us from relying on Core Bluetooth’s scanning
APIs. For our purpose, relying on ASK outside the EU would significantly undermine our global
pairing logic and the high-quality user experience we seek to provide.
In other words, while the described proposed Cloud Pairing interoperability solution itself
seems acceptable, tying its access to ASK imposes a constraint that materially affects ability to
offer a high-quality user experience globally, particularly as our devices must provide a
comparable quality of user experience across both the EU and countries where Proximity
Pairing nor the other DMA‑mandated ASK improvements apply.
Therefore, we would welcome clarifications from your team on:
whether Cloud Pairing could be made available independent of ASK, or
whether support for ASK could be made possible without blocking use of Core Bluetooth’s
discovery and connection APIs, either by removing the mutual exclusivity or by allowing the
companion app to determine at runtime which framework to rely on.
We look forward to receiving your responses to the questions above and remain available to
provide any further clarification you may require.
February 18, 2026, from Apple to Developer
Thank you for your follow-up.
We have carefully reviewed your suggestions to the project plan. We intend to proceed with the
plan communicated to you. As you note, the solution we have designed meets the functionality
you requested: enabling pairing completed on one device to be utilized on other devices on
which the user is signed in with the same Apple Account. In addition to fulfilling your request,
we believe the plan we communicated is the best method of doing this for both the global
community of developers and for users. The AccessorySetupKit requirement is needed to
maintain required privacy protection and transparency for users’ pairing records to sync across
devices. Further, as we previously noted, support outside the EU is something we are still
considering.
We note that other developers have been able to adopt AccessorySetupKit outside of the EU
without encountering, to our understanding, the issues you cite below. We refer to the following
documentation to assist with your adoption: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/
accessorysetupkit/discovering-and-configuring-accessories#Perform-custom-filtering.
If you wish to appeal Apple’s communicated 4 February 2026 Project Plan because, in your
view, the envisaged interoperability solution communicated by Apple would not be equally
effective compared to the feature used by Apple, you will have 15 working days (not including
any public holiday as defined by the European Commission) from receiving this communication
to initiate a dispute resolution mechanism under Article 6(7) of the Digital Markets Act (DMA).
Consistent with Paragraph 41(c) of the Annex to the EC’s 19 March 2025 Process Decision in
Case DMA.100204, if you initiate dispute resolution, the timeline under which Apple will release
a solution will be suspended during the pendency of the dispute resolution process.
Timing
To initiate the process, please respond to this communication by indicating you are initiating
the dispute resolution mechanism, and include a brief written statement setting out the
grounds for doing so.
The dispute resolution mechanism can consist of two stages.
Internal Review Mechanism
The first stage is an internal review by an Interoperability Request Review Board (IRRB), made
up of senior Apple members. The IRRB will issue a reasoned written decision within 30 working
days of receiving your brief written statement, and communicate that decision to you, Apple,
and the European Commission without delay. The IRRB may decide to overturn Apple’s
decision, refer it back for new consideration, or reject your appeal. The 30 working-day
deadline may be extended if the IRRB seeks guidance from the European Commission. This
stage is free of charge to you.
The IRRB’s written decision will be kept confidential, subject to the publication by Apple of an
aggregated summary of the outcome of the decision by the IRRB. Apple will provide you the
opportunity to review the aggregated summary for the purpose of ensuring that it does not
contain any information that you consider confidential.
Conciliation
If you are not satisfied with the IRRB written decision, you may initiate an external non-binding
technical expert review process (“conciliation”) within 15 working days of notification of the
IRRB’s decision. You will be provided with more information regarding conciliation once you are
eligible for it.
March 18, 2026, from Developer to Apple
Dear Apple Developer Relations Team,
Thank you for your detailed response and for confirming that support outside the EU is
something you are still considering.
We have reviewed the documentation you referenced regarding the APIs that allow an app
using AccessorySetupKit (ASK) to perform custom filtering for nearby devices. We were already
familiar with these APIs and, indeed, we make extensive use of the CoreBluetooth equivalents
today.
Our concern, however, does not relate to the filtering capabilities themselves, but rather, to the
need for blocking System UI to be present, and occupy the full screen, before the app or the
system can discover nearby devices when using ASK. We do not run into this constraint when
using CoreBluetooth. While this may not pose difficulties within the EU, given the EU-specific
modifications to ASK, it will materially impact our global pairing logic, as we currently rely on
CoreBluetooth’s scanning APIs outside the EU where Proximity Pairing (i.e., the EU-specific
modifications to ASK) is not planned to be supported.
In light of this clarification, we would be grateful if your team could reconsider this aspect of
the project plan (making access to the proposed interoperability solution conditional on use of
ASK), or explore whether ASK could be used without imposing this System‑UI blocking
requirement for device discovery.
We remain committed to collaborating closely and are happy to provide any additional
technical detail that would be helpful.
Kind regards,
Ted
