# FB20882653 — Meta

| Field | Value |
| --- | --- |
| Developer | Meta |
| Request ID | FB20882653 |
| Date Received | October 31, 2025 |
| Current Status | Closed |

## Descriptive Title

iPhone access when screen is locked

## Request Type

Interoperability Request

## Feature Name

Project supplemental app view to, and acquire input from, an external device including while
iPhone screen is locked

## Reason for Request

Meta would like interoperability with the system-level functionalities that allow third-party iOS
apps to project a supplemental app view onto an external display and to acquire input from an
external device, including while the app is running in the background and while the iPhone
screen is locked. Access to these system-level functionalities would allow Meta to enable iOS
apps to project a supplemental app view onto a Quest headset display and to acquire input
from the Quest headset in the manner that CarPlay-enabled apps can project supplemental
app views onto and acquire input from CarPlay-enabled external displays.
CarPlay-enabled iOS apps can provide content (e.g., directions, incoming calls, messages,
music playback) which iOS then renders on a CarPlay-enabled external display (such as a car
infotainment system), including while the iPhone is locked. We understand that the UI
displayed on the CarPlay-enabled external display is a supplemental app view, i.e., effectively
an extension of the app running on the iPhone. The extension enables users not only to view
the content projected by the iOS app, but also to provide input to the iOS app by interacting
with the external display. For example, CarPlay-enabled Google Maps projects a map to the
CarPlay-enabled external display and the user can provide input to the Google Maps iOS app
by interacting directly with the CarPlay-enabled display. By tapping on the display, a user can,
among other things, select a destination or report an incident without needing to unlock and
interact with the iPhone.
Apart from CarPlay-enabled apps and external displays, iOS does not allow apps to project
supplemental app views to third-party external displays and acquire input from external
devices. As a result, Meta cannot project supplemental app views from its iOS apps to its own
external displays, such as those on its wearable devices and VR/MR headsets, or enable those
iOS apps to acquire input from users’ interactions with those external displays.
For the sake of clarity, we are not requesting interoperability with CarPlay. Instead, we are
requesting interoperability with the iOS functionalities that enables CarPlay-enabled apps to
project a supplemental app view to an external display and accept input from a user’s
interactions with that display, including while the apps are in the background and the iPhone is
locked. We cite CarPlay only as an example of an Apple service that uses the relevant iOS
functionalities (and thereby to demonstrate why those functionalities are within scope of Article
6(7) of the DMA). Ultimately, we are seeking to implement these functionalities in our apps and
devices outside the scope of CarPlay. We are confident that our request falls within scope of
Article 6(7) of the DMA, because as we understand from your documentation on the CarPlay
framework, the CarPlay App Programming Guide and the CarPlay design guidelines, such
functionalities are managed by iOS (“iOS manages the display of UI elements and handles the
interface with the car.”) and are evidently available to Apple services and hardware via, for
instance, the CarPlay system.

## Product Description

Meta Quest headsets

## How the Product Will Use the Feature

We would use the feature to enable iOS apps to project a supplemental app view to, and
acquire input from, Meta Quest headsets and other wearable devices.

## Where the Product Is/Will Be Offered

Worldwide

## Other Frameworks Evaluated

N/A.

## Confidential Treatment

Fully available to other developers

## Additional Information

N/A.
Attachments

## Communications with Developer

November 3, 2025, from Apple to Developer:
Thank you for your interoperability request.
It is currently in Phase I - Eligibility review. We will reach out via this forum if we need
clarification of your request.
If we do not reach out for clarification, we will endeavor to provide you with the outcome of the
initial assessment of our Phase I - Eligibility review within 20 working days of the date of your
request, which does not include any public holiday as defined by the European Commission.
November 21, 2025, from Apple to Developer:
Thank you again for your request.
We have reviewed your submission and determined that your request falls outside the scope of
Article 6(7) DMA because the requested feature (projecting supplemental views of iOS apps
onto an external device display) is not available to or used by Apple services or hardware. For
this reason, we are not moving your request to the next phase of our interoperability review
process.
As this determination is based on a non-technical consideration (i.e., whether a requested
feature is available to or used by an Apple service or hardware), it is not eligible for the dispute
resolution mechanism.
This concludes our review under Article 6(7) DMA.
If you have additional questions, you may reach out to us through Apple Developer Forums
(https://developer.apple.com/forums/) , Feedback Assistant (https://developer.apple.com/bug-
reporting/), or a code-level support request (https://developer.apple.com/contact/request/
code-level-support/).
