# FB21231434 — Alipay

| Field | Value |
| --- | --- |
| Developer | Alipay |
| Request ID | FB21231434 |
| Date Received | December 1, 2025 |
| Current Status | Closed |

## Descriptive Title

iPhone17 Air iOS26系统。在网络环境差时，触碰N标签，多次弹出系统push通知，很少出现Clip
卡片。使用体验不好，希望苹果优化，希望每次都能够碰出Clip。

## Request Type

Interoperability Request

## Feature Name

iPhone17 Air。iOS26

## Reason for Request

对用户而言，Clip使用体验比push通知更好，更能够实现应用引流

## Product Description

iPhone

## How the Product Will Use the Feature

快捷支付

## Where the Product Is/Will Be Offered

Other

## Other Frameworks Evaluated

clip

## Confidential Treatment

Fully available to other developers

## Additional Information

Attachments
Video_01.mov

## Communications with Developer

December 2, 2025, from Apple to Developer:
Thank you for your interoperability request.
It is currently in Phase I - Eligibility review. We will reach out via this forum if we need
clarification of your request.
If we do not reach out for clarification, we will endeavor to provide you with the outcome of the
initial assessment of our Phase I - Eligibility review within 20 working days of the date of your
request, which does not include any public holiday as defined by the European Commission.
December 11, 2025, from Apple to Developer:
Thank you for your request.
We have carefully examined the request you submitted—FB21231434. We have concluded that
this is a bug fix request and not an interoperability request because your request concerns the
reliability of existing functionality. We are therefore closing FB21231434 as an interoperability
request. We have forwarded your bug fix request along to the appropriate team for further
review.
If you wish to request interoperability with iOS and iPadOS in the European Union, please visit
the following website for more information on that process: https://developer.apple.com/
support/ios-interoperability.
