# FB22580108 — Santander

| Field | Value |
| --- | --- |
| Developer | Santander |
| Request ID | FB22580108 |
| Date Received | April 22, 2026 |
| Current Status | Closed |

## Descriptive Title

Shortcut to selection of default contactless application

## Request Type

Interoperability Request

## Feature Name

Selection of default contactless application

## Reason for Request

As part of DMA commitments, Apple allows third party applications to access iPhone NFC
capabilities and to be selected by the customer as default contactless application. Meaning the
application that will be invoked when customer taps into a POS or when customer double
clicks on the side button.
But to define the default contactless application user needs to be directed first to contactless
settings screen and then to the screen of selection the default payment application, making
that journey complex for the customer

## Product Description

Santander is developing NFC payment capabilities in EU. As part of the card onbioarding
process, customer needs to go to the selection of default contactless app. That route is
extremelly complex for users and the result is that customer is not able to manage the change
in default contactless app.

## How the Product Will Use the Feature

iOS should allow applications to be defined as default contactless application from the app,
without the need to go into settings screens. As a worst case, if this is not feasible, the
alternative should be that app could redirect users directly to the screen where the contactless
applications are listed, so that customer could select the desired one

## Where the Product Is/Will Be Offered

European Union

## Other Frameworks Evaluated

Competitor's OS make this journey more straight and simple, drivong customers directly to the
default app selection screen, where all NFC apps are listed.

## Confidential Treatment

Fully available to other developers

## Additional Information

Attachments

## Communications with Developer

April 23, 2026, from Apple to Developer:
Thank you for your interoperability request.
It is currently in Phase I - Eligibility review. We will reach out via this forum if we need
clarification of your request.
If we do not reach out for clarification, we will endeavor to provide you with the outcome of the
initial assessment of our Phase I - Eligibility review within 20 working days of the date of your
request, which does not include any public holiday as defined by the European Commission.
May 26, 2026, from Developer to Apple:
Dear friends, it has been over 20 working days since the interoperability request. Is there any
news on the feedback?
May 26, 2026, from Apple to Developer:
We have reviewed your submission and determined that your request falls outside the scope of
Article 6(7) DMA because it does not seek access to or interoperability with a feature of iOS.
Instead, your request asks that either (i) an application be allowed to be set as the default
contactless application from within the app itself, or alternatively (ii) an application be allowed
to redirect users directly to the contactless application selection screen within the Default Apps
section in Settings. For this reason, we are closing your request and not moving it to the next
phase of our interoperability process.
As this determination is based on a non-technical consideration (i.e., whether Apple is legally
obligated to create new features within the meaning of Article 6(7) DMA), it is not eligible for the
dispute resolution mechanism.
This concludes our review under Article 6(7) DMA.
If you have additional questions, you may reach out to us through Apple Developer Forums
(https://developer.apple.com/forums/), Feedback Assistant (https://developer.apple.com/bug-
reporting/), or a code-level support request (https://developer.apple.com/contact/request/
code-level-support/).
