# FB22580225 — Santander

| Field | Value |
| --- | --- |
| Developer | Santander |
| Request ID | FB22580225 |
| Official page | [https://developer.apple.com/eu-interoperability-request/fb22580225/](https://developer.apple.com/eu-interoperability-request/fb22580225/) |
| Date Received | April 22, 2026 |
| Current Status | Closed |

## Descriptive Title

Default contactless applications if only one application is enabled

## Request Type

Interoperability Request

## Feature Name

Selection of default contactless application

## Reason for Request

User can define which is the default contactless application at the device. For that, user
accesses a settings screen where all Contactless applications are listed so that user can select
the desired one. In that settings screen, all apps that have contactless functionalities, are
included. Even if they are not in position to perform any contactless action. For example, Apple
Wallet will be on that list even if there are no cards provisioned and it would be inactive for any
contactless payment.

## Product Description

Santander is developing contactless payment functionality at iOS. If customer has cards
provisioned only at Santander, it doesn't make sense to have other apps defined as default as
it means a harder journey for the customer to start using it.

## How the Product Will Use the Feature

Applications without payment / contactless credentials activated should not be in the list of
contactless applications to be selected as default application. In case only one application has
contactless credentials ready to use, that should be the only application on that list, and it
should be the default application without the need of the user performing any action.

## Where the Product Is/Will Be Offered

European Union

## Other Frameworks Evaluated

No alternative solution has been found.

## Confidential Treatment

Fully available to other developers

## Additional Information

Attachments

## Communications with Developer

April 23, 2026, from Apple to Developer:
Thank you for your interoperability request.
It is currently in Phase I - Eligibility review. We will reach out via this forum if we need
clarification of your request.
If we do not reach out for clarification, we will endeavor to provide you with the outcome of the
initial assessment of our Phase I - Eligibility review within 20 working days of the date of your
request, which does not include any public holiday as defined by the European Commission.
May 26, 2026, from Developer to Apple:
Dear friends, it has been over 20 working days since the interoperability request. Is there any
news on the feedback?
May 26, 2026, from Apple to Developer:
We have reviewed your submission and determined that your request falls outside the scope of
Article 6(7) DMA because it does not seek access to or interoperability with a feature of iOS.
Instead, your request asks that iOS only includes in the default contactless application
selection list those applications that have active contactless credentials provisioned and ready
to use. For this reason, we are closing your request and not moving it to the next phase of our
interoperability process.
As this determination is based on a non-technical consideration (i.e., whether Apple has an
obligation to change default components on iOS), it is not eligible for the dispute resolution
mechanism.
This concludes our review under Article 6(7) DMA.
If you have additional questions, you may reach out to us through Apple Developer Forums
(https://developer.apple.com/forums/), Feedback Assistant (https://developer.apple.com/bug-
reporting/), or a code-level support request (https://developer.apple.com/contact/request/
code-level-support/).
