# FB22580355 — Santander

| Field | Value |
| --- | --- |
| Developer | Santander |
| Request ID | FB22580355 |
| Date Received | April 22, 2026 |
| Current Status | Closed |

## Descriptive Title

Apple Wallet being pre-defined as default contactless application

## Request Type

Interoperability Request

## Feature Name

Definition of default contactless application

## Reason for Request

For a new iPhone, without any customization by the user Apple Wallet is the default
contactless / wallet application. That means that any 3rd party payment application needs to
bring the customer to define a different default payment application. Even if customer has
never used Apple Wallet, it is the predefined app.

## Product Description

Santander is working on the development of a mobile payments functionality within the mobile
banking app. To be able to compete in equal conditions vs OS apps, it is required that no app
is pre-defined as default.

## How the Product Will Use the Feature

Apple Wallet should follow the same journey as any third party application to be selected as
default contactless application. It should not come predefined by default. So that customer
faces the same default app definition journey for all the apps: third parties and Apple native
apps

## Where the Product Is/Will Be Offered

European Union

## Other Frameworks Evaluated

No.

## Confidential Treatment

Fully available to other developers

## Additional Information

Attachments

## Communications with Developer

April 23, 2026, from Apple to Developer:
Thank you for your interoperability request.
It is currently in Phase I - Eligibility review. We will reach out via this forum if we need
clarification of your request.
If we do not reach out for clarification, we will endeavor to provide you with the outcome of the
initial assessment of our Phase I - Eligibility review within 20 working days of the date of your
request, which does not include any public holiday as defined by the European Commission.
May 26, 2026, from Developer to Apple:
Dear friends, it has been over 20 working days since the interoperability request. Is there any
news on the feedback?
May 26, 2026, from Apple to Developer:
We have reviewed your submission and determined that your request falls outside the scope of
Article 6(7) DMA because it does not seek access to or interoperability with a feature of iOS.
Instead, your request is making an ask that Apple Wallet follow the same selection journey as
third-party applications, rather than being pre-defined as the default. For this reason, we are
closing your request and not moving it to the next phase of our interoperability process.
As this determination is based on a non-technical consideration (i.e., whether Apple has an
obligation to change default components on iOS), it is not eligible for the dispute resolution
mechanism.
This concludes our review under Article 6(7) DMA.
If you have additional questions, you may reach out to us through Apple Developer Forums
(https://developer.apple.com/forums/), Feedback Assistant (https://developer.apple.com/bug-
reporting/), or a code-level support request (https://developer.apple.com/contact/request/
code-level-support/).
